here are some homes on the Missouri
River just up from Bismarck that are
doing their best to keep the water at
bay and these are big beautiful
beautiful homes on a back channel whose
biggest problem before quite frankly was
trying to figure out a way to keep
access to the river because this channel
was driving up and now they're in a
fight for their life with groundwater
and you can see with the intrusion of
the water coming from underneath and
over when it rains they have to make
sure the water doesn't affect them
they're all buildings are in water and
you can see in the distance a large
warehouse fighting the same fight there
as well and this the water the river
Missouri River used to have a very tiny
channel here but the main channel was
about a quarter mile in our direction
over the tops of these treetops here and
you're some big cottonwood trees that
are about a hundred years old would
probably never have seen water in quite
some time
there's another house ironically the
they have a pool in their house there's
the playground there's another house
just to the north of us and they don't
seem to be diked up here at all they're
just kind of letting nature take its
course there's water all around this
home appears to be all the stuff is out
of the house we can see through the
windows here and there's their
playground we're probably about 12 feet
above where the water should be so there
would be a 12-foot drop down to the
river here and the river channel were 12
feet above where it should be and
they've they they're not diking the home
so they may be giving up on this house I
don't know and the beautiful pool in
front of it completely ruined by by the
river water all the way around it will
paddle down the other side of it as you
can see water completely surrounds it
going all the way back around to about
another half mile behind this river what
was once a riverfront home no access to
it at all
with the completely an accessible except
by what we're doing now by boat and you
can see the the cottonwood on the water
falling out of the tree incidentally
cottonwood trees do not recede unless
there is a flood so these will sink to
the bottom and as the mud comes back up
you'll see a little cottonwood shoots
from all the cottonwood you see here and
that that's what will happen as a result
of what is taking place right now
you
here's a yeah here's the bladder we can
see that they were trying to protect
their house with that's failed they've
got an utter dike a secondary dike there
another pool behind that dike you can
hear pumps pumping water out from behind
this house here and we saw their jacuzzi
on the other side of their dike there's
a there's a water you can see the water
running out from behind there so they've
got groundwater issues over here they've
got electricity I can see electricity on
over there as they're fighting this
flood fight they've got water coming on
both sides at this house for your water
12 feet high the river here you can see
the tops of these trees over over the
water there
you
this is a riverfront property here
the mills place been here for a long
time 14 years now and built it
Cody here just barely remembers the
other house before they came here got a
lot of water in the garage here
so how DP estimating the water to be
here three and a half feet about three
and a feet they can hear ya and the
current just right out in front of your
house now unbelievable
so really all it's saving you is this
guy's house right all that's saving you
is this out yeah right
you